# Week Five - Hospitality in Gander

This article was written from the perspective of someone who worked on one of the airplanes that was rerouted during the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States. Many planes landed in a small town of Gander, Newfoundland which increased the population by two thirds according to the article. The story starts with a story of human malice but ends up a story of helping others and charity. All the residents of Gander seemed to have put their life on hold to accommodate their unexpected guests and as the author says, ‘every need was met’. I have heard of this story before on CBC radio and heard a similar sentiment. People that were stranded there were amazed at the co-operation and compassion of the population of Gander.
This makes me wonder if there were any other small towns that grew significantly due to grounded airplanes during September 11th. This must have the largest proportional increase in population for this situation as it seems to be the most famous. So famous they made a Broadway musical about it called ‘Come from Away’. It is amazing how this level of caring for others can have such a ripple effect on people. This is evident by the art/articles made about this and with how the flight attendant describes the flight back home from Gander. People all talking to each other and bonding over a shared experience when they would have otherwise never spoken to each other and for the most part pretended each other didn’t exist while they waited for their plane to land.

Near the end of the article the author talks about how Mitt Romney tried to take credit for setting up a scholarship in a nearby town to Gander and that he had been on the same flight. It turns out he wasn’t on that flight and he never set up that scholarship. It’s odd the things public figures think they can get away with lying about to present a better public image of themselves.

Source: https://www.snopes.com/fact-check/gander-housed-stranded-passengers/