# Week One: Airplane Testing

This article details various problems that have plagued the Boeing 737 Max airplane which has been involved in multiple airline crashes in the last year. The focus is on the warning light which is supposed to inform pilots when a sensor in the plane is malfunctioning. The problem is much deeper than a warning light and stems from the manufacturer outfitting the plane with much larger engines than it was originally designed for. After putting too large engines on the plane to compete with a rival manufacturer they implemented a flight correction system which would change the angle of the plane to correct its nose angling up too much due to the larger engines. This correction system often over corrected the plan and would send it into a nosedive. There is a warning light to indicate that this may happen, but it was an optional feature. 

This whole situation is a bit absurd because you have a warning light to try and warn of a system that occasionally malfunction so severely that it caused the plane to crash. This is a situation where you need to rethink the airplane design. If you need an indicator that tells you the plane might crash midflight that’s big problem that needs addressing. Throughout the article Boeing goes back and forth saying different things about the indicator light which shows a clear lack of quality testing. If they tested the airplane and were getting inconsistent results that likely means it is not ready for production and public flights. This also raises the question of who is responsible for the testing. 

If testing is left in the hands of the people that would profit from a product passing the tests sooner, then there is an inherent bias there. Testing should be complete by people that aren’t affiliated with the people who built the airplane. This goes for aviation as well as for software development as if you built something that you are testing you will be biased towards it and be unable to see it as a first-time user would.

source: https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/05/business/boeing-737-max-warning-light.html