# Week Six – Don’t Show Me Where the Sausages Are Made

This week’s article talked about the authors idea of what a story is and how most stories fit into almost the same narrative structure. Frankly, I found this article incredibly dry. I do enjoy movies and stories, but I do not enjoy dissecting them in this manner. In this case the author is simultaneously very specific and yet very broad at the same time. The entire article is wide sweeping and generalizing which turned out to be a shallow analysis using very specific examples. I don’t find this article to be particularly useful in a debate of story structure because it is so general. I tried throughout the article to relate this in some way to my life or to programming but all I could think of is “I should watch Die Hard again”.

The entire article is framed using examples from Die Hard and a few other movies that the author never gets specific enough to even know what they are talking about. This line comes to mind “Like at that elf guy's house in Lord of the Rings”. Are you talking about Bilbo’s house? Are you talking about Tom Bombadil’s house? I have no idea what they are referring to here.

I find this type of article hard to enjoy or really care about which is my personal bias. I keep trying to think of why and I’ll do my best to explain here and work through my thoughts here. I enjoy stories and I enjoy discussing by suspending disbelief and talking as if the story really. I also enjoy discussing stories and relating them to a bigger context in terms of other stories and real-world events. I think what I have trouble enjoying is the dissecting of stories from the writer’s perspective. At the end of the day I think it’s a case of not wanting to see how the sausages are made. 

Source: https://channel101.fandom.com/wiki/Story_Structure_104:_The_Juicy_Details