# Week Three - Curb Cut Effect
This article begins by describing when and how curb-cuts came about. It goes on to argue that curb-cuts end up benefitting a lot of people in society and not just people in wheelchairs. The article then draws comparisons to this type of effect in other areas of society. The effect they are talking about here is that if you do something with the intention of benefitting a few people or a smaller part of the population, you will end up benefitting everyone in society. This is an interesting perspective that I haven’t really considered before. I always thought helping as many people as we could is a good idea but when talking about curb cuts, I wouldn’t immediately think of the person with a stroller or work cart.
The article then makes various arguments about why good public transportation is so vital and various barriers that people face. The idea here is that if you apply curb cut thinking to more things in our world, we would be removing barriers for more people and that would benefit society. I think this has been happening more over the past years but I still encounter people who argue that solving a specific groups problem is a waste of resources/time but I agree with this article in that we should try to remove as many barriers as we can for people. For someone who takes public transit every day, improving the reliability/speed of transit is going to make them happier day to day but it might also entice more people who normally drive their car to use it as well which cuts down on emissions. This would then benefit everyone in society.

source: https://ssir.org/articles/entry/the_curb_cut_effect