# Week Zero: Building on Averages

This article is based on the history of averages and how we began building things around the average size of humans in the mid 19th century. It goes on to detail how Adolphe Quételet popularized the “science” of averages and some of the systems we use today that are based on averages. This included the development of a clothing size model in the American civil war which was the first time small, medium and large sizes of clothing were made. For certain things this system of averages made sense and was efficient but for other things it ended up being the wrong size for everyone because no one is exactly average. I found this idea very interesting as I have never really considered the how this could work out in reality.

It helped me to think of a simple example that may be extreme but it gets the point across. If 5 people need pants and we want to make the same size for all of them and take the average of their waist sizes to make one size it wouldn’t fit any of them. For instance the waist sizes 30, 32, 42, 46 and 48 inches would have an average size of 39.6 inches. This is a very small sample size but in this example the average size wouldn’t fit any of them. It would be better to just make the median size of 42 because it would at least fit one person and be closer to the 2 that it is too small for. This problem is magnified when it goes beyond pants and is applied to environments in which people are expected to be precise in or work for many hours such as a cockpit for a pilot or a desk set up for a programmer.

The main takeaway for me is to design with 2 extremes in mind. For example if we are trying to develop a pair of hedge trimmers and we develop them for the average hand size and strength it is possible that someone who is relatively weak wouldn’t be able to open or close them and a really strong person with large features may be too large to comfortably operate them. If we instead design them with these two opposite ends of the spectrum in mind then everyone in between these two extremes should be able to easily use them.

source: https://99percentinvisible.org/episode/on-average/