# Week Four - Web Accessibility Survey Results

The results of the Screen Reader User survey by Web AIM gives developers a better understands of the needs of visually impaired people who use screen readers. This survey conducted in October 2017 included 1792 participants in which 96.2% of respondents said they had visual impairment or blindness. It details things like the browsers most often used, the screen reader most used and combinations of them. There couple of interesting things that developers should be aware of in this survey. The first is that Internet Explorer is much more popular among this sample of disabled people and if this is also true for the whole population of people who use screen readers you must be sure that whatever you develop works well with a screen reader and IE 11. Since the percentage of the entire population that uses internet explorer is less than 5% developers may be less inclined to support it, but they may reconsider if 23.3% of people who user screen readers use it.  

The most popular screen reader software data is also import to developers for testing what they develop. Knowing what most people use as a screen reader would help to determine which ones are a priority when testing across different browsers. 

The mobile section of the results was very interesting as 75.6% of people were using Apple products suggesting that screen reader software is preferable in some way. It is likely the case that this is due to superior software in the Apple products and not the hardware as 69% of people use Apple’s proprietary mobile screen reading application called VoiceOver.

Something that was surprising to me is in the sections focused on progress of web accessibility, almost the same number of people said they felt like the web got more accessible as said that they think it hasn’t changed. With government regulations coming into place in the soon I would have thought there would be a noticeable effort across the web to make things more accessible. 18.8% of people said the web has become less accessible and that makes me wonder what kind of content they consume most frequently and how it has become less accessible for them. Although regulation isn’t coming into effect in some of the regions that some participants are from. It would be interesting to see that question with location data.

Source: https://webaim.org/projects/screenreadersurvey7/